source: amherst.edu
title: Theme Communities
url: https://www.amherst.edu/campuslife/housing-dining/residential-life/theme
description: A page listing all current theme and language communities on campus.
method: js
---

Theme Community Pages
2026-2027 Theme Applications
Asian Cultural House
Charles Drew
Dar al-Islam
French House
German House
Humphries House
Latinx Culture House
Marsh Arts House
Russian House
Spanish Language House
Sylvia Rivera Community
2026-2027 Theme and Language Communities

Theme Communities

Asian Culture House.  The Asian Culture House was established to enhance awareness of all Asian cultures and to promote cultural diversity on campus. Each semester, members are required to organize one event that pertains to Asian culture and to attend events organized by fellow members. These projects are excellent opportunities to increase visibility and impact on campus.  All those interested in Asian culture are strongly encouraged to apply. Morrow Hall.

Charles Drew Memorial Culture House. Drew House was founded as a space where members of the Amherst College community can engage in intellectual debate, social activities, artistic expression, and all other endeavors that highlight the accomplishments of Black people throughout the years and around the world. This house has been named in honor of Dr. Charles Drew, class of 1926, for his outstanding achievements and as a testament to the continuous inspiration and example of achievements of Black people such as Charles Drew and to explore the cultures of Africa and the Diaspora.  All are welcome.  Drew House.

Dar al-Islam. The name of this community means “House of Islam” in Arabic. The theme community serves Muslim members of the Amherst community, including those who are active in their religious practice, those who were raised religious or in a religious household but are no longer practicing, those who identify with Muslim culture without faith practice, and those who are still exploring their relationship to Islam. In addition, this community serves non-Muslim students who are interested in learning about the spectra of Islamic faith traditions, practices, and cultures.  The fundamental aim of the community is to provide a comfortable, inclusive, and non-judgmental space for students interested in the spiritual, religious, and/or cultural practice and exploration of Islam.  Residence Hall A.

La Casa. This residential environment is for the promotion and expression of Latino cultures. It also provides a space for expression and brings together those students who have a demonstrated interest in celebrating and enhancing the awareness of Latinx cultures through various activities within the college community.  The House is open to all students. Students are not required to be Latinx or to speak Spanish. Anyone who possesses an interest in Latinx culture is strongly encouraged to apply.  Newport House.

International Theme Community. This community fully embraces and celebrates the diversity brought by international students. The community provides a welcoming environment for students of international experience that allows them to explore their own and other resident’s heritage and culture.  The International Theme Community welcomes international students and students interested in international cultures, experiences, and perspectives. Morris-Pratt.

Marsh Arts House.  This house provides a supportive working atmosphere for student artists.  Students living in the Arts House have access to space for producing and displaying work, space to perform, and resources to host events and classes related to the arts.  The Arts House seeks artists in all media who are interested in producing and displaying extra-curricular work, as well as artists interested in presenting non-student work.  Marsh House.

The Sylvia Rivera Community.  Named to honor Latinx trans movement worker and Stonewall veteran Sylvia Rivera, the Sylvia Rivera Floor is a community dedicated to maintaining an affirming and celebratory living environment for LGBTQ+ people. This floor follows Sylvia’s legacy of providing space for LGBTQ+ folks to live and build community together, with all the beauty inherent in the diversity of gender and sexuality.  All students interested in contributing to this community are encouraged to apply. Moore Hall

Language Houses

The French House.  This is an academic theme community that creates a residential environment for students interested in developing and exercising their skills in the French language.  It also provides a forum in which all francophones at Amherst College can engage in activities conducted in French that are related to the French language and culture.  King Hall.

German House. This community provides its residents with an environment that encourages and facilitates the speaking of German and the exploration of the culture of German-speaking countries. German House residents also automatically become members of the German Club, a campus-wide SFC-sponsored organization. Porter Hall.
Russian House. This community exists for students who want to learn about Russian culture through its language and who want to make Russian culture more prominent on campus.  Residents of the Russian House are expected to speak Russian with each other in the house as much as possible and to take advantage of the presence of the native/heritage speakers (native/heritage speakers and advanced language students are expected to take some initiative, particularly with residents more hesitant about their speaking skills). Porter Hall
Spanish House.  This community encourages students to speak in Spanish to allow for practice of the Spanish language.  Members of the house will also explore and learn about Hispanic culture.  Newport House.

Students can apply to live in these communities through the theme community applications. The Theme & Language Community application process for Academic Year 2026-2027 is now closed.
